# I/O System Calls

The system call is a way for programs to interact with the operating system. There are 5 different categories of system calls:

1. Process Control
2. File Management
3. Device Management
4. Information Management
5. Communication

## File Management System Calls
Here, we will discuss about the system calls for file management. There are four system calls for file management:
1. open()
2. read()
3. write()
4. close()

### 1. open()
The `open()` system call is used to know the file descriptor of user-created files. It returns the file descriptor, which is required for `read()` and `write()` system calls.

Syntax:
```
fd = open (file_name, mode, permission);
```

Example:
```
fd = open("file", O_CREAT | O_RDWR, 0777);
```
Where:
- `file_name` is the name of the file to open.
- `mode` is used to define the file opening modes such as create, read, write modes.
- `permission` is used to define the file permissions.



### 2. read()
The `read()` system call is used to read the content from the file. It can also be used to read the input from the keyboard by specifying 0 as the file descriptor.

Syntax:
```
length = read(file_descriptor , buffer, max_len);
```

Example:
```
n = read(0, buff, 50);
```

Where:
- `file_descriptor` is the file descriptor of the file.
- `buffer` is the name of the buffer where data is to be stored.
- `max_len` is the number specifying the maximum amount of data that can be read.

Return value: If successful, `read()` returns the number of bytes actually read.

### 3. write()
The `write()` system call is used to write the content to the file.

Syntax:
```
length = write(file_descriptor, buffer, len);
```

Example:
```
n = write(fd, "Hello world!", 12);
```

Where:
- `file_descriptor` is the file descriptor of the file.
- `buffer` is the name of the buffer to be stored.
- `len` is the length of the data to be written.

Return value: If successful, `write()` returns the number of bytes actually written.

### 4. close()
The `close()` system call is used to close the opened file and tells the operating system that you are done with the file.

Syntax:
```
int close(int fd);
```

Where:
- `fd` is the file descriptor of the file to be closed.

Return value: If the file is closed successfully, it returns 0, else it returns -1.

```cpp
#include <unistd.h>
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {
  int file_descriptor;
  char buffer[100];

  // Open the file
  file_descriptor = open("sample_file.txt", O_CREAT | O_RDWR, 0777);

  // Read data from the file
  int bytes_read = read(file_descriptor, buffer, 100);

  // Write data to the file
  int bytes_written = write(file_descriptor, "Hello World!", 12);

  // Close the file
  close(file_descriptor);

  // Output the results
  cout << "Bytes read: " << bytes_read << endl;
  cout << "Bytes written: " << bytes_written << endl;

  return 0;
}


```



